okay let's take a closer look at what
we've heard about the latest round of
negotiations according to Al jazer
sources Israel has told mediators it
rejects stopping the war and withdrawing
its forces from Gaza but Hamas is
demanding a full ceasefire Hamas also
wants Palestinians to be able to return
to Northern Gaza but Israel says it will
only allow 2,000 displaced people a day
to return now at that rate it would take
more than two years for all displaced
Palestinians to leave Rafa Israel wants
the release of Israeli captives of all
categories in the first stage of the
deal but Hamas has indicated it will
only release women and children there
are also differences over the release of
Palestinian prisoners serving life
sentences in Israeli
jails well we're now joined on the line
by basam name a member of the Hamas
political Bureau uh first of all that is
what I outlined there that is what we
understand Israel's response to be is
that how
you understand things uh right now and
if so just how big a setback is this to
any sort of ceasefire
deal thank you very much uh a lot of
information distributed in the media
this night and the day before uh are
misleading informations from the Israeli
side and unfortunately also from the
American side because in order to
exercise the maximum pressure on the
negotiators from from the uh side of the
resistance uh to yield to the Israeli
will uh we are negotiating for ending
the aggression we are negotiating for a
ceasefire we are negotiating to relieve
the suffering of our people and to allow
our people who has been forcefully under
carbet bombardment left their houses to
the South to return back to their houses
the Israelis are looking for the
negotiation as for in according to one
or or on in the context of one goal
hostages
release it is not about ending the war
it is not about withdrawal total
withdrawal of the forces from the Gaza
STP and it is not about allowing the
Palestinians to return back to their
houses our proposal which was a total
comprehensive proposal handed over to
the mediators and also to the Americans
from the first moment they have braised
it as a very positive cooperative and uh
constructive sorry and uh it is within
the context of Paris 1 and Paris 2 MH uh
unfortunately uh despite Paris one and
Paris 2 has been negotiated with the
Israelis directly which means what the
Israelis today uh tell what the Israelis
today uh uh to what they have told the
negotiators today is much worse
or beyond the Paris one
and to and therefore the movement has
clearly told the mediators that we
cannot accept negotiating any prisoner
deal unless the Israelis give uh the
guarantees and the commitment guaranteed
by the mediators and by by the USA and
un and so on and so on they are
ready total withdraw and to the right to
to the dis people so you say that this
from what you've heard from Israel
this is much worse than what was put out
there when it came to the Paris talks
how much of a surprise is this then
because certainly from the outside at
the very least it seemed like real
progress was being made
here it is very shocking that the
mediators have
unfortunately accepted to to uh to uh to
convey or to hand over this Israeli
ideas to the to to the to our side
because based on Baris one and Barce 2
and a long talks and negotiations and
contacts with the mediators and with the
Americans they have promised that at
least these three uh demands of a total
ceas Fair uh total withdraw and the
return of our displaced people to their
houses there is a positive and there's
an acceptance from the isi side now
suddenly uh out of nothing the Israelis
are rejecting therefore we believe we
believe that it is not about
negotiations it is not about a ceas fair
it is about Benjamin Netanyahu is uh
using the negotiations as a cover and to
gain more time and more time to continue
it his plans by complete bombardment the
rest of the Gaza Strip including ra and
to release the tension inside isra and
also to release the international
pressure during this Security Council
discussion therefore it is about
Netanyahu rejection of ending this
aggression despite of all presses given
all of that are you still going to sit
down at the negotiating table and try
and hash out a ceasefire
here we have told the negotiators
tonight that we are not ready to discuss
any further uh you pieces of proposals
we are in need for a total comprehensive
proposal responding to all our demands
and then we can be engaged in a prisoner
deal uh to reach finally a total lasting
cere so that by the way I have to tell
you something that and your audience all
the countries who have exp have
presented their Readiness to participate
in the rebuilding of Gaza and the relief
of the humanitarian catastroph in the G
they have said we cannot do it unless we
see a clear clear total and
comprehensive and Lasting SE Fair
therefore without this it means Gaza
will not be rebelled buttina will will
not be able to return back to their
houses okay so just to clarify at this
point in time these talks these latest
round of negotiations in Doha they are
over as of right
now first of all there there are no
negotiations because it is it is they
are we are we can talk about talks
between the Israelis and the mediators
there is no negotiations with us we are
not now engaged in a negotiation process
with the Israelis indirectly through the
mediators what would get you back to
that table to to speak with the
mediators once again to to get a a total
comprehensive response about uh
regarding our demands of the three main
points the total ceas Fair total
withdrawal and and allowing all our
people display from their houses to
return back to their houses
again how confident are you that you
would be able to get those three points
across the line at some point in
time unfortunately it depends not you we
are we are ready to continue uh our or
to express our steadfastness and
resistance as long as n want because we
have no choice but it depends on the
mediators on the super power the
Americans and Europeans to exercise more
pressure in on Benjamin Netanyahu in
order not to endanger not only the
Palestinian situation but also the whole
region and to undermine any chance for
long-term stability security prosperity
in the
region okay thank you so much we do
appreciate your time and uh talking us
through all of this that is Bim a member
of the Hamas political
Bureau okay we're joining me now uh
right here is Luciano zakara he's an
associate uh Professor uh at the golf
study center first of all what is your
response uh to heras there are you as
surprised and taken back as uh Bassam
name appeared to be I'm not surprised
because they keep saying the same that
they were demanding since the very
beginning of the negotiations the the
stop of the the ceas fire immediate ceas
fire and the the withdrawal of the
Israeli forces and the possibility of
people in Gaza in Rafa to return to the
northern Gaza these are the same demands
they have been doing since the very
beginning ER but according to to what we
heard is the discussion about the uh the
Seas FS not on the table on the Israeli
side and unfortunately this has been the
Israeli position since the very
beginning as well there is no discussion
about cisar cire unless all the hes are
released so we are in the dead point
that is difficult to break yeah I mean I
would have thought that a lot of this
would have been discussed before both
sides came to talk with the mediators
because we we've known this for some
time Israel re rejects stopping the war
and
withdrawing uh and Hamas wants a full
ceasefire I mean it seems quite strange
at this point in time that they both
sides
knowing the either one's positions would
would even sit down with mediators
well I I assume that both are expecting
someone to press the other side to reach
to to to close the this this Gap that
exist I mean we saw that at least united
state has been pushing a little bit more
pressuring more Israel but as far as
there is no United Nations security
Council resolution supported by the US
asking or demanding for the immediate C
far Israel will not feel the total
pressure from the United States so
Israel can keep pushing uh the limits I
mean they said that they agree with the
United States proposal regarding how
many people can exchange uh for the
hostages but it seems that the United
States not even requesting that United
States requesting not to entering into
Rafa but they are not requesting them
directly to stop the
ceire bessam name was saying there that
uh he doesn't believe Hamas does not
believe at this point in time that
Israel is acting in good faith that this
is not really about a trying to come to
any ceasefire agreement this is about
extending the war on Gaza what did you
make of that statement this this one of
the interpretation we had we said before
this could be uh just gaining time to
push the limits uh for the operation the
military operation in Rafa that they
keep repeating they will do regardless
of any uh rejection from the United
States or the International Community
even uh gues uh the secret the Secretary
General of United Nations so maybe this
is a way to gain time rather
than honestly following a negotiation
that will finish with something that is
tangible at the same time uh we've heard
the armed wing of Hamas say uh that a 34
year-old Israeli captive has died due to
a lack of medicine and food what did you
make of that and how much extra pressure
do you think that that is going to put
on Netanyahu or is he immune to that
sort of pressure at this point in time I
don't think he he ever cared that much
about that I mean we we keep seeing that
the there are weekly protests in Israel
itself with the family members of people
that they are hostage they are demanding
Netanyahu to change their demand even to
step down six months so far and he
hasn't changed his mind so why someone
one of the hostages dying would change
his mind okay we'll have to leave it
there but we uh do appreciate your time
zakara thank you